Cool, yeah, so let's head into the final
exercise here, back to our same workshop
page as normal and we have this
beautiful random image huge thing.
So the kind of thing that I was hoping we
would do here is just spend a few minutes.
Probably the easiest thing to
do out of the box would just be
if you're in whatever major
browser to open your DevTools,
all the Chromium ones
will have Lighthouse.
If you're not using a Chromium browser,
then we can talk about
some of the other things.
But if you're using a Chromium browser,
to use Lighthouse to
pick accessibility only and
then to analyze the page load here.
If you are not using a Chromium browser,
then I would recommend getting the free
Dequeue Axe plugin which will work for
any browser and then that'll add a new tab
here Axe and then run that audit there.
So if Chromium just use the built in
Lighthouse, I would say if not Chromium,
grab the free Axe plugin.
We'll get that installed, we'll run it and
then feel free to solve as many of
the things as you would like to solve.
When we come back after the break,
we'll kinda talk about why the violations
occurred and solve them together.
But yeah, I think the idea here is
basically just doing your first
accessibility audit,
seeing what kind of stuff comes back.
What kind of stuff affects the score
according to Lighthouse and why, and
then we'll work through
all that stuff together.
So go to the page and
I'll do an analyze page load.
It's gonna go and do a full refresh and
it's gonna run a bunch of rules against
all the markup and
test some things and all that stuff.
And it gives us this
beautiful score of 38,
which was as low as I could get it without
really, really mangling the website.
So cool, for
those that haven't used Lighthouse yet
another pitch to check
out my DevTools course.
But yeah, it's really great,
it provides you with a score out of 100,
a list of things to fix,
a list of things that you did well,
a list of items to manually check.
Things that it's having a hard
time proving one way or another.
And you'll also notice that under each
item, when you select it and expand it,
it will link to some really
well written articles.
And those articles may be on Deque site,
they may be on Google's site,
they may be on Chrome's site,
wherever they feel,
the best kind of explanation of
why these rules exist is there.
So I find this a really great
starting place because it'll not
only help you identify what
might be wrong with your site.
But if you're confused by it, which I
often am, it gives you a great link to
kinda go read more and
hopefully better understand what it is.
So we'll just go through and
fix a couple of these, in this other tab,
I've got the code open and I will close
all the tabs except for the audit tab.
And we'll just kinda start going through.
So it says one thing is Aria hidden is
present on the document body, which means
that screen readers will be inconsistent,
they might not work very well.
So we can find this kind of Aria hidden
and we can remove that, Aria hidden equals
true, that was a bit of a cheeky one,
just there to kind of test things out.
It looks like we also have Aria hidden,
maybe we don't have it somewhere else.
Cool, so moving down further,
we've got this user scalable
no used in the viewport.
So I think up at the top we
should have this meta viewport.
And it's saying that user scalable no
disable zooming and disabling zooming
is very problematic for users with low
vision who rely on screen magnification.
So kind of like we talked about at
the very beginning of this workshop, so
we can go ahead for now and
just remove this, allow users to zoom.
I think one thing I'm always careful of,
I think getting really good at
accessibility will be excellent for
your career, but it also brings you into
a bit of conflict with design sometimes.
I do think one important thing about
becoming an accessibility expert is
learning how to lead with empathy.
And explain that while the visual design
dream of the website may be one way
why it's really important
to not disable this.
A lot of times you'll be asked to
hijack scroll to provide a cool,
smooth scroll or disable zooming
because everything's pixel perfect.
Or get those focus rings off the buttons
because they don't match the design
system or rewrite checkboxes cuz we
want them to be a star instead of a box.
Or all these different things come up.
And I think an important part of being an
accessibility specialist is leading those
conversations with empathy and being like,
yeah, your design looks fantastic.
But here's what we can do while
staying kind of compliant,
while staying an excellent experience for
people.
It's just a constant theme
that keeps coming up is like,
I can totally see people
wanting to disable zoom, but
it does have these bad
unintended consequences.
So we'll go ahead and remove that,
keep going, background and
foreground colors do not have
appropriate color contrast.
So these are really nice where it not
only just tells you there's an issue, but
it actually tells you which
elements are failing here.
So we can see the HERO and
the menu button, so
if we go to menu button,
this blue on white is not working.
So we can just contrive to
make it blue on black for now.
There's also a DIV description,
so this is also maybe too light,
I'm sort of just kind of guessing at
some of these things, we've got a card.
Where is the card?
Div class card, and again, maybe,
so let's fix a few of these things.
We'll reload the site,
things are a little bit sharper looking.
And then we can kind of take an audit
of how we're doing so far and
see how much we've improved, so it was
that camera 36 or 38 out of 100 before,
fix a couple of things on here.
And cool, we've jumped up to like 59 and
we can keep going with this,
images don't have alt attributes.
So it finds a bunch of images,
so we can kind of see those,
they are pictures of something.
These don't look necessary at all for
the document, so
what do we do when they're not necessary?
>> Speaker 1: Empty strings?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, That's not
my normal style of teaching, but
it felt right, I'm glad we went for it.
Cool anyway, yeah, I mean, you can kind
of see here let me know if there were any
that are specific to go through.
But kind of as we go through these and
keep running these audits,
they should get higher and higher.
The other kind of important thing
to mention is that with all of your
lighthouse audits or
whatever tool you're using,
why didn't these get alt attributes?
>> Speaker 1: There's one more image.
>> Speaker 1: Did I miss one?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Aha, this is the one up
here, it's just also kind of just a HERO
image, it doesn't actually provide
any value to the website anyway.
The other thing that I wanted to mention
with all of these performance audits
is not only do the things that are kind
of like in red and alerting you, cool,
we're kind of heading on up there.
But also make sure that you always check
out this additional items to manual check,
this is like one of my favorite
things about Lighthouse, yeah.
>> I noticed you have your alt empty,
right?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: You don't
want it to be accessible.
>> Right.
>> Speaker 1: Then do we have to put tab
index is equals to minus 1.
>> Speaker 1: So the images
are not tabable by themselves, so
they won't be tabable.
But there was a question in the chat
earlier which was kind of an advanced
case, which was saying we have a list
of links, and instead of text.
We have images for the link,
like arrow forward, arrow backward, and
then we want the arrow image not to read,
but the link is still tabable.
We can get into complicated cases, right?
So in that case, we could leave the link
tabable, but make the image alt empty.
So sometimes you'll get into a little
bit of a more complex situation.
But in this case, if you have a H1,
then an image tag with some abstract
piece of art and then a paragraph,
the image making that image empty,
all, it will never have been tabable.
So as you're tabbing through,
you'll go from the H1 into whatever form
controls and you'll skip over the image.
Yeah, great question, and then, yeah,
the other thing is it will tell you things
that it could not necessarily prove.
So are the interactive controls,
are they all keyboard focusable?
Do they clearly indicate their purpose and
state?
Look at the tab order, is it logical?
Things like this, so I really love these
tools because they give you stuff to
fix and they also give you a list
of things that they don't know.
And you can kinda take it from here and
start adding your automatic tests and
things like that.